# Locating Faulty File of Bug Report with Distinction
Software bugs can cause disastrous consequences. To improve software quality, users often report their found bugs to programmers through issue trackers. As users typically are not professionals, most bug reports do not explicitly mention which files are faulty. As a result, programmers have to read bug reports, and locate their faulty files. To reduce the effort, locating faults has long been a hot research topic. Given a bug report, the state-of-the-art approaches compare the bug report with the source files of a buggy version. The basic idea is similar to information retrieval, where a bug report is considered as a query and the source files of a buggy version are considered as the documents to be retrieved. In this research line, researchers have proposed many approaches, and their approaches are known as IR-based fault localization.

Although IR-based fault localization has been intensively studied, researchers criticize that the evaluations of the prior approaches typically have flaws. For example, to prepare the test inputs, researchers shall locate the version of source files to compare with a bug report. In the literature, researchers either match a bug report to the latest version or the version that fixes this bug report, and the evaluation results on the two settings are significantly different. The problem is known as the version-matching problem.

In this paper, we argue that the version-matching problem is more serious than expected. Indeed, we find that it is infeasible to find the true versions for many bug reports. To handle this problem, we propose the first approach, called DISBL, that locates faulty files without the comparison to any source files. From the issue reports of all files, it trains a classification model, and for a new bug report, the trained model can predict its faulty files. DISBL does not suffer from the version-matching problem, because it does not use the source files of the buggy version as its inputs. We evaluated DISBL on the bug reports of six popular open-source projects. Our results show that even without the source files of buggy versions, DISBL achieved reasonably high accuracy values that are close to IR-based approaches. Furthermore, we used DISBL to locate faulty files for ten open bug reports, and it located at least one faulty file for seven reports.

## Datasets
Here are [Raw Datasets](./dataset) we use in this project.

## Evaluation Results
#### Overall Effectiveness
Our recommendations are provided in [results/recommendations](./results/recommendations). In summary, even without the source files of buggy versions, DISBL achieved actuary values that are similar to IR-based approaches, and there is sufficient space for improvements.

#### Rankings of real faulty files
To figure out to what extent the real faulty files can be localized, we exhibit the rankings of them in the recommendation list in [result/rankings](./results/rankings). The real faulty files of quite a few bugs get top 5 rankings in the recommendation list, while some other files keep low rankings. Researchers proposed approaches to extract various contents from software engineering documents. If we use such approaches to identify the contents of issue reports, we can further improve the effectiveness of our approach.